Rough Draft. Official Doc in PDF

blockEDU

A decentralized education system.

June 7 2017

Nathan Ginnever

Abstract

BlockEDU is a protocol token built on-top of the Ethereum blockchain and a network of distributed reputation where data is stored with a private and decentralized model. BlockEDU will implement a new consensus mechanism called Proof of Free Education. It is an alternative education protocol that can host free--and open source--course management system (CMS), where Distributed Open Collaborative Courses (DOCC), Small Private Online Course (SPOC), Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC), and institution free traditional universities created online and serviced offline can be explored. The goal of BlockEDU is to solve some of the apparent issues with current accredited universities as well as online or offline courses in a way that makes quality and reputable education affordable and accessible to all. BlockEDU will offer the ability for anyone to create custom courses or structure degree programs that conform to current academic paths without the centralized trust provided by the current system. BlockEDU will remain an uncontrolled non-profit that has no ability to impose any fees on students or educators.



1 Introduction

The question has been raised as to wether Universities are continuiong to provide an affordable and quility education for students. The increase of student loan debt to income ratio has caused many students to begin looking for alternatives. Alternative forms of education enabled by the web have become a popular industry in the past decade as students face increasing tutuion rates and the inablity to afford traditional universities. Current instutions have too many auxilary fees that don't benefit the student such as adminsistrative fees. With MOOCs you do not need to be geographically close to your institution of learning. As long as the acedemic community has an internet connection and a cursory knowledge of technology they may connect with each other to advance knowledge. Institutions such as Udacity, edX, and Coursera have seen success as a perhaps viable way of spreading mass education at an affordable price. They promise to offer affordable and accessible information to those who otherwise would not have had a chance to learn. However, MOOCs have not been able to fullfil personal relationships needed for proper education and team building, they often have language barriers, and do not promote institutions that advance knowledge in their field. BlockEDU is an attempt to aid in Goal 4 of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development where the UN has envisioned a way to ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning.

1.1 Problem Statement

However, just as there are weaknesses inheret in the current web such as centralization, broken information links, security and privacy concerns, there are weaknesses in the current online education systems provided by centralized organizations. Organizations that once started with a non-profit business model have inevietably moved towards instutionalization, advertising and profit. 

Offline Institutions are also failing to keep courses affordable for students and are facilitating the rise of online education. The increase in student loan debt discourage students from enrolling in traditional universities. Teachers are incentivsed to keep course material proproetary as a way to produce income. 

1.1 a The Profit Model

There has been debate over the past decade that for-profit institutions are fueling the student loan crisis. [source student loan debt info]

Institutions are encouraged to take on large class sizes due to income. An example of this is a physics course for engineers that will enroll 60 students and the department will encourage the professor to fail as many students as they can. This could be do to the simple fact that engineers do not want those that are not qualified to build critical infrustructure such as bridges. blockEDU will challenge this construct and ask the question of why where students allowed to enroll in a course that they were not prepared to take, and why are educators encouraged to fail students, when they could be encouraged to help them succeed. [source whitepaper notes]

1.1 a Lack of feedback

In order to handle the larger class sizes that universities take on, there are systems in place to use standardized tests as a marker for merit, but often this falls short of its goal and does not provide feedback neccesarry to change the beliefs of instructors on their students understanding. [see algebraic reasoning]

1.1 a Accredidation

Universities maintain their place in society because there is nowhere else for teachers to have the reputation they need to be trusted. The for-profit model has driven private universities to higher the best educators since profit is the main mechanism for incentivising quality eduaction.

1.1 a

The ability to use the web to generate mass profit from the crowd is potentially one of the largest weaknesses presented by traditional MOOCs and institutions. There is often a lack of small class sizes and diversity in scope that cater to all types of learning. Without the ablility to create personal interactions between educators and students there are large incompletion rates and only a select few that will succeed from MOOCs. Others will drop off and lose money to a for-profit institution. Large class sizes also limit the ability of the educator to learn better ways of structuring their courses in the future. Teachers often report that personal feedback is a valubale resource for both educator and student.

A case example of the value of personal feedback can be found in teachers and researched beliefs about the development of algebraic reasoning in high school students. In this example the teachers must organize their mathematics testing and problem sets by their predicted difficulty for students. Textbooks sometimes are not a reliable source for this reasoning. "The Symbol Precedence Model of development of algebraic reasoning, in which symbolic problem solving precedes verbal problem solving and arithmetic skills strictly precede algebraic skills, was contrasted with the Verbal Precedence Model of development, which provided a better quantitative fit of students’ performance data."

1.1 b

MOOCs lack a flexibilty that allows the community to decide how coureses should be structured. Some Universities have expressed concern that the massive nature of MOOCs or the need for those involved to understand technology or a lack of a stong sequenced structure makes them unacceptable. They often forget about foreign language speakers and only cater to English as they are not able to coordinate on a local level. These MOOC systems fail to explore the difficulties of relevance and knowledge transfer across boarders. 

While seeminly good ideas such as open edx exist, they are technically complicated for educators to run and encourage profit to be driven to expertsto set them up. Furthermore, these systems encourage advertisement as another method of monotization. There are many repositories in the open edx organization dedicated to installing and running services that advertise to students, and teachers. These repositories make it harder for those trying to run and install an open edx system as they increase the complexity of deployment, and the cost of maintaining these code bases. It is blockEDU's stance that advertisement has no benefit to either educator or student.

1.2 Proposed Solution

1.2 Profit solution
BlockEDU puts forth an idea that using decentralized technologies can enforce a non-profit model that is self sustaining. We present a consensus model that rewards educators for maintaining a free course.

1.2 Maintain free courses

Blockedu introduces a consensus protocol that incentivises educators to not charge students for their service. The protocol will reward teachers that maintain this standard, and will not reward those that charge money for their time and content. 

1.2 MOOC problem
The possibility of peer-to-peer education will ensure that the community always forms the organization. There will be no centralized authority to dictate how a course should be sized, scheduled, or monetized. BlockEDU will maintain an easy of use for educators and students such that there will not be a need for unneccesary technical installations or cloud data solutions.

1.2 Accredidiation problem
The platform will create the ablitiy to use distributed reputation in a way that provides the accredidation needed for students to trust that they are getting a quality education, and to pass this trust forward to future employeers or education groups so they may trust that a quality education was provided. 

Each community member will have the ability to use a system permentaly printed in an immutable ledger that was once used only for financial transactions. Auxilaray p2p systems will offset some the of the costs associated with "blockchains". Privacy and a lack of cencorship are built in to the systems used so that courses will never be limited to the constructs of a few, but rather molded by the masses.  Choice is the core tenant of blockEDU and if other organizations are not comforatable creating a new community, they may choose to establish a more traditional centralized and permissioned university role. Just as massive course structures will be possible so will small localized communites. Ultmately the members of this community get to determine where they belong and what works best for them.


3.1 EDU Tokens

EDU tokens are an ERC20 standard Ethereum token. These token will be used to represent a unit of having participated in consensus on the reputation system for educators. They will provide a store of wealth that reflects communities interest in the decentralized blockedu organization. They will also be used as a mechanism by which courses are unlocked in the event that teachers .

// This will describe the use of tokens in the system. All business logic and funding models will be left to the website itself. Move the following to the site

There is no traditional business model to sustain this so alternatives will be explored. From selling t-shirts and taking donations to distributions of organizationed owned ERC20 tokens.

Tokens will be used as the initial and limited continued funding model of this non-profit. The initial sale will be used to fund development to MVP. As all systems require maintainence the non-profit will hold an excess of tokens not sold for future sales to fund further improvements and development. 

3.1.1 Total Supply

An arbitrary total supply of 21 million has be chosen to pay omage to bitcoin.

3.1.2 Token Distribution Process

A total of 4.2 Million EDU tokens will be offered in the ICO phase so that the organization may retain 80% of the total supply for future development. 

A presale discount will be offered to large institutional and personal investors that wish to support blockEDU. A cap will be set at 2 Million EDU for the presale investors wishing to spend $30,000 or more.

The remaining tokens will be held by the non-profit foundation as a method for funding future developnent any centralized costs to aliviate user interaction friction.




2. System Overview

BlockEDU will use a combination of the most applicable decentralized technologies. As these technolgies come into being and work out their growing pains blockEDU will retain the ability to shift its underlying tech stack to that of the best suited. We will begin creating the system by using what is currently available as of the time of writing this whitepaper draft.

2.1 Consensus

Much in the same way that bitcoin maintains consensus on the correctness of financial transactions with a proof of work scheme, blockEDU will maintain consensus on the idea that education should be free for those willing to learn.  

2.1 Reputation system

BlockEDU is implementing a reputation system based on the uniTEC distributed reputation. 


2.1 Course structures

2.1.1 Open Course Marketplace

blockEDU will offer a system where any person can start teaching a course with zero costs or reputation needed. It will be up to the crowd if they decide to enroll in the course and a subsequent reputation can start being built for the instructor. This is similar how udemy works. 

2.1.2 Traditional Closed Courses

Private courses that are ran by universities will also be possible. An organization level account can be created so that larger institutions may maintain a private subset of courses that on their currently enrolled students may use. The system will take the student email or account login at the univesity as it's means of registering for these closed traditional courses. This part of blockEDU will serve as a CMS similar to what edX or blackboard have provided to universities in the past.

2.2 Overview of Current Technology Stack

The stack decided for the alpha release of blockedu will be comprised of Ethereum payment processing and smart contracts, IPFS/SWARM content addressing, and SWARM storage. 

Ethereum was chosen as the permissions layer of blockedu because of its ... Ethereum is a worldwide distributed super computer...

The Interplanetary Filesystem has been chosen to offset the costs of storing data in a blockchain, as all operations in Ethereum, especially storage cost money. IPFS is...

SWARM has been chosen as the storage provider to perform provably retrievable data. Swarm promises to be a cheaper solution to traditional Amazon or Google cloud storage.

2.2.1 a Ethereum

Blockchains offer a payment system that is decentralized so that direct payments can be made from educator to student. This helps to disincentivize blockEDU from taking a profit from the system as it has no ability to do so. Smart contracts will be used to generate a payment processor. They will also be used as an immutable database of pointers to the advertisement of upcoming courses. These pointers will ensure that course material remains open and free for all to access at any point in time after their upload to blockEDU. Those who choose to not pay for classes or participate in the course will not be graded or receive feedback, but they will always be able to learn from the course in the future much like MIT opencourses are published to the public. If a course provider decides that they would prefer to keep their content private they will also have this option. As the content is hash link in the contracts, this becomes only a matter of the course provider maintaining their encryption key to the content. Once a course is done, they can move and re-encrypt the content for future course purchases.

2.2.1 b Payments

Blockchains do one thing well (sometimes) at the current time of writing this. They are a form of decentralized payment processing. While transactions fees and miner centralization are inhereint problems of succesful chains, ideas on scaling are startng to form. One such possibliity that will be explored is micropayment systems and off chain state channels if fees ever become high enough to degrade the cost of savings in the mission statement. BlockEDU courses will only require one-time payyments that will cover a large time frame and will be larger in amount. So the risk of losing too much to fees is most likely neglagible.

blockEDU will provide a centralized payment hub that sits on-top of the blockchain. The rationale for this is that it is too complicated and technically difficult for users to manage their keys and clients. The blockEDU servers will run the full nodes needed to access the network, and the front-end will feature a credit card processor via stripe that will automatically convert their payments to cryptocurrency.  

2.2.2 Course Contracts

Each course that is presented to the CMS by an instructor will be a smart contract living on the ethereum blockchain. The contents of this contract will include a) the duration of the course marked by miner timestamp. (this is acceptable as the length of a course with be longer than 900 ms). b) the course description to be publicized to those interested in taking the course. c) the required prereqs needed on student accounts in order to enroll in the course if any. d) the cose in EDU tokens needed by the student to enroll. e) a sercurity deposit held by the contract submitted by the teacher. (more on this in 2.2.1 b) f) hash links to the actual course material (this requires teacherts prepare the entire coursae before creation).

2.2.3 a Student records registry

A contract will hold the published records of what courses they have passed.

2.2.3 b Prereqs

The course contract will be able to read from the student record registry contract to deterimine tif the public key that the student is sending a request to enroll from has completed the apprpriate amount of courses.

2.2.4 Hash linked course material

3 Consensus model



3 Reputation System

3.1.1 Trust Overview

3.1.2 Requirements

3.1.3 Trust model

3.1.3 b trust chains

3.1.4 Kowledge Model

3.1.5 Interactions

3.1.6 Architecture


3 blockEDU contracts in detail

a unique description that is searchable by the frontend of the CMS inorder for students to find courases they are intereseted in taking.

3.1 Course Registry

3.2 Reputation

3.3 Bonds

3.3 Provable Prerequisits

4 Distributed permanent storage

4.1 Reputation records

4.1 IPFS / Swarm

The Interplanetary File system or ethereum swarm system will serve as content addressing network that allows for the offest of on cahin data storgae.

4.2 Immutable data pointers

The smart contracts will only store the hash pointers used by the IPFS protcol. When the applications akes a request for some data it will reach out to the ipfs or swarm dht to retreive the content. This allows for large amounts of course data in the for of pdfs, lecture slides, or course videos to be uploaded to the course contract.


4.1 Storj / Sia / Swarm / Filecoin

A network of farmers that can be accesses by the content addresed hashes will garuntee that the course material stays alive in the network, even well beyond the closing of the course if chosen.

4.2 Provably retrivable records

All the listed systems use some form of auditing to ensure that files remain in the network that are not popular. As courses will not be poular content, especially after they have closed, it is important to have a system that will maintain them for future use as free and open learning materials for others. It will cost a fee from the foundation to keep these records active. It is possible to have a portion of the course costs be placed as farming fees in the event that the organization no longer exists or no longer has enough funding to provide this service.

4.3 Records controlled by students

The student records of their scores on all exams and total course grades will also be kept on these provably retrivable systems. All of these systems encrypt the data that they store so the student will retain ful lcontrol over who sees their success or faulures.


6. Frontend Applicatin Framework

Javascript has been chosen as an easy deployment language for the frontend and VUE has been chosen as the framework to build the application. Since single page javascript applications can be sent over the wire with all of the tools needed to run and interact with courses, we found that it was a natural fit for the goals of blockEDU.

6.1 Vue



7. Centralized Bridged Access

Not everyone can be expected to be able to understand how to use peer-to-peer technologies in their current state. A non-profit organaztion will be formed to help address this problem. POssible centralized services that will need to be provided for a time are fiat payment processing, full-node services such as infura that are able to run the open RPC clients for Eth, IPFS, and Storj, and the application server that will serve the javascript CMS client.
